.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Kevin Boone 
.\" Permission is granted to any individual or institution to use, copy, or
.\" redistribute this software so long as all of the original files are
.\" included, that it is not sold for profit, and that this copyright notice
.\" is retained.
.\"
.TH dbcmd-get 1 "May 2017"
.SH NAME
Download files from Dropbox
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbcmd 
get\ [options]\ {remote_paths...}\ {local_path}
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIdbcmd get\fR retrieves one or more files from the Dropbox server, 
attempting to maintain the server's folder structure in the local
directory. Each 
\fIremote-path\fR argument can specify a single file, a folder, or
a file pattern with wildcards. Unless a single file is specified, the
\fI[local-path]\fR argument must denote a local directory that already
exists. It is possibile to specifiy '.', the current directory. 

This command will not retrieve files which have the same SHA-256 hash as
they have on the server -- these are deemed to be unchanged. It will never
delete local files that don't have counterparts on the server -- files
are only ever added.  

This command is not intended to synchronize an entire Dropbox account
-- there are limits to the number of files that can be searched on
Dropbox in a single operation. Rather it is intended to obtain
particular files or folders for local viewing or modification.

.SH EXAMPLE

.BI dbcmd\ -r\ get\ /docs/accounts/*.doc\ accounts/ 

Download files the match pattern \fI*.doc\fR from \fI/docs/accounts\fR on the 
Dropbox server, and any of its subfolders, 
and copy them to the local directory \fIaccounts\fR, maintaining
the same structure.

.SH "OPTIONS"

.TP
.BI -d,\-\-days-ago={days}
Do not even consider retrieving files whose modification time, as stored
on the server, is more than the specified number of days ago. It is
important to understand that Dropbox uses hashes, not datestamps, to
determine whether files are up-to-date. However, the calculation of
hashes on the client can be very time-consuming, especially if files are
large or plentiful. The \fI--days-ago\fR option causes the server's stored
timestamp to be checked before the hash operation, and the file will only
be considered further if it is more recent that the specified limit.

Note that this option applies only to files, not to directories, which
have no timestamp on Dropbox. \fIdbcmd\fR will still create directories
if asked to do a recursive get, even if the timestamp consideration prevents
any files being stored in them.
.LP

See main manual page for more general options.

.SH NOTES

.SS Dry-run operation

The \fI--dry-run\fR options will show the pathnanes on the server and
client, of the files that will be transferred, without transferring
them. Note that this dry run can be as time-consuming as an actual
transfer, because the file hash values still have to be computed, to
determine whether a transfer will take place or not.

.SS Directory naming 

Directory names that refer to Dropbox folders \fImust\fR start with a forward
slash (/).

Whether the remote name ends with a forward slash has particular meaning when
copying directories. If a Dropbox folder name does not end with a forward
slash, then the folder name itself is preserved in the target directory.
If it does end with a forward slash, then only the contents of the folder 
are copied -- the folder name does not form part of the target
pathname. So these two operations are equivalent:

.BI dbcmd\ -r\ get\ /docs/accounts\ ./docs 

and

.BI dbcmd\ -r\ get\ /docs/accounts/\ ./docs/accounts 

(assuming that the local directory \fIdocs/accounts\fR exists.) This
naming follows the same semantics as \fIrsync(1)\fR.
Unlike \fIrsync(1)\fR, however, this utility will accept file wildcard 
characters in
a folder expansion. Only files matching
the pattern will be copied.

.SS File list limit

Although there is no limit, apart from memory and patience, to the 
number of files that can be downloaded in one operation, this utility
is not designed for synchronizing an entire Dropbox account. The
Dropbox HTTP API is not designed for speed, and the need to compute
file hash values makes it even slower.

.SS Timestamps

The timestamp set on the file will be the time it is written to the local
filesystem. No attempt is made to synchronize timestamps, because the
Dropbox sync process uses hashes, not timestamps, to determine whether
a file is up to date.

.SS Authentication

This utility, like all that use the Dropbox API, uses token-based
authentication against the Dropbox server. It will prompt for a token
the first time it is executed, and store the token for future use.
See 
.SS \fIdbcmd(1)\fR 
for more details.


.SH SEE ALSO 

.SS \fIdbcmd(1)\fR 


.\" end of file
