.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Kevin Boone 
.\" Permission is granted to any individual or institution to use, copy, or
.\" redistribute this software so long as all of the original files are
.\" included, that it is not sold for profit, and that this copyright notice
.\" is retained.
.\"
.TH dbcmd-delete 1 "March 2017"
.SH NAME
Delete file or folder from Dropbox
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbcmd 
delete\ [options]\ {remote_path_spec} 
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIdbcmd delete\fR deletes files or folders from the Dropbox server. 

.SH EXAMPLES

.BI dbcmd\ delete\ /docs/accounts/

Delete the specified folder and all its files and subfolders

.BI dbcmd\ delete\ /docs/accounts/*

Delete everything (including subfolders), but not the folder itself. 

.BI dbcmd\ delete\ /docs/accounts/*.txt

Delete files matching '*.txt' from 'accounts', but not any of it
subfolders. 

.BI dbcmd\ delete\ --recursive\ /docs/accounts/*.txt

Delete files matching '*.txt' from 'accounts', and all its subfolders. 

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI -a,\-\-auth
Force a re-authentication against the Dropbox server, and get a new
authentication token. The token is stored in 
\fI$HOME/.dbcmdr_token\rR.
.LP
.TP
.BI -r,\-\-recursive
Expand folders when searching for file matches.
.LP
.TP
.BI -y,\-\-yes
Do not prompt -- just delete without confirmation.
.LP



.SH NOTES

.SS Folder deletion is recursive 

Caution should be exercised when running this command on a folder, as it will
delete the folder and everything underneath it, without much warning.
This is the standard behaviour of Dropbox, and the only way to avoid it
is to specify a particular file pattern to delete.

.SS Wildcards will not match folders 

Wildcards (*, ?) will not match folder names, because the risk of
accidental full deletion (see above) is too high. So a file pattern
can only be used to delete files. To delete a folder (and its contents),
specify the full folder name. 

.SS Authentication

This utility, like all that use the Dropbox API, uses token-based
authentication against the Dropbox server. It will prompt for a token
the first time it is executed, and store the token for future use.
See 
.SS \fIdbcmd(1)\fR 
for more details.


.SH SEE ALSO 

.SS \fIdbcmd(1)\fR 


.\" end of file
