.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Kevin Boone 
.\" Permission is granted to any individual or institution to use, copy, or
.\" redistribute this software so long as all of the original files are
.\" included, that it is not sold for profit, and that this copyright notice
.\" is retained.
.\"
.TH dbcmd-move 1 "May 2017"
.SH NAME
Move a file or folder within Dropbox
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbcmd 
move\ [options]\ {old_path}\ {new_path}
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIdbcmd move\fR moves or renames a file or folder on the dropbox server 

.SH EXAMPLE

.BI dbcmd\ move\ /docs/may2017.doc\ /docs/accounts/may2017.doc

Moves a file from one folder to another. Note that the target
filename must be supplied.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI -a,\-\-auth
Force a re-authentication against the Dropbox server, and get a new
authentication token. The token is stored in 
\fI$HOME/.dbcmdr_token\rR.
.LP

.SH NOTES

.SS Wildcards are not supported

Unlike the \fIget\fR and \fIput\fR commands, the \fImove\fR command does
not support wildcards; it operates on a single file or a single folder.

 
.SS Target file or folder must be given

When moving a file or subfolder between folders, the name of the
new file or folder must be given. \fIdbcmd\fR won't assume (because
the Dropbox API does not) that the name of the file or folder is to be
retained in its new location. 


.SS Authentication

This utility, like all that use the Dropbox API, uses token-based
authentication against the Dropbox server. It will prompt for a token
the first time it is executed, and store the token for future use.
See 
.SS \fIdbcmd(1)\fR 
for more details.


.SH SEE ALSO 

.SS \fIdbcmd(1)\fR 


.\" end of file
