.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Kevin Boone 
.\" Permission is granted to any individual or institution to use, copy, or
.\" redistribute this software so long as all of the original files are
.\" included, that it is not sold for profit, and that this copyright notice
.\" is retained.
.\"
.TH dbcmd-info 1 "March 2017"
.SH NAME
Show information about a specific file or folder on the Dropbox
server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbcmd 
info\ [options]\ {remote_path} 
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIdbcmd info\fR displays information about a specific file or folder 
on the Dropbox server. Use \fIkbdmcmd list\fI to list files.
A folder name end in a forward slash (/), even if a folder 
exists with that name.

.SH EXAMPLE

.BI dbcmd\ info\ /docs/accounts/march2017.doc

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI -a,\-\-auth
Force a re-authentication against the Dropbox server, and get a new
authentication token. The token is stored in 
\fI$HOME/.dbcmdr_token\rR.
.LP
.TP
.BI -r,\-\-recursive
When applied to a folder, count the files and subfolders recursively. This 
can be very slow when there are large numbers of files.
.LP

.SH NOTES

.SS Folder information 

The utility counts the number of files, number of subfolders, and the total
storage. If the \fI--recursive\fR switch is given, it will expand subfolders; otherwise
only the specific folder is displayed.

.SS Authentication

This utility, like all that use the Dropbox API, uses token-based
authentication against the Dropbox server. It will prompt for a token
the first time it is executed, and store the token for future use.
See 
.SS \fIdbcmd(1)\fR 
for more details.


.SH SEE ALSO 

.SS \fIdbcmd(1)\fR 


.\" end of file
