.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Kevin Boone 
.\" Permission is granted to any individual or institution to use, copy, or
.\" redistribute this software so long as all of the original files are
.\" included, that it is not sold for profit, and that this copyright notice
.\" is retained.
.\"
.TH dbcmd-list 1 "March 2017"
.SH NAME
List files on the Dropbox server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbcmd 
list\ [options]\ [remote_path] 
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIdbcmd list\fR lists the contents of a folder on the Dropbox
server. If no folder is specified, the top-level ("root") 
folder is displayed.

.SH EXAMPLE

.BI dbcmd\ -r\ list\ /docs/accounts/

List all files in the folder \fI/docs/accounts\fR and its
subfolders on the server.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI -a,\-\-auth
Force a re-authentication against the Dropbox server, and get a new
authentication token. The token is stored in 
\fI$HOME/.dbcmdr_token\rR.
.LP
.TP
.BI -l,\-\-long
Display in long format, one file to a line
.LP
.TP
.BI -r,\-\-recursive
List folders recursively
.LP
.TP
.BI -w,\-\-width
set the number of screen columns, for formatting purposes.
.LP

.SH NOTES

.SS Recursive listing

When listing folders recursively, all the subfolders are
listed first, followed by all the files. This is the output provided
by the Dropbox API -- files are not grouped into folders. 
So for recursive operation, the full pathname of each file is shown,
and output is always in "long" (one line per file) format.

.SS Authentication

This utility, like all that use the Dropbox API, uses token-based
authentication against the Dropbox server. It will prompt for a token
the first time it is executed, and store the token for future use.
See 
.SS \fIdbcmd(1)\fR 
for more details.

.SS Screen width 

Other than in "long" mode, output is formatted in columns to fill the screen. The
utility attempts to guess the screen width using system calls. If this is inaccurate,
use the \fI--width\fR switch to set the width.

.SH SEE ALSO 

.SS \fIdbcmd(1)\fR 


.\" end of file
